---
layout: post
author: gabriel
categories: stargazing
tags: github
date: 2017-06-30 21:25:28 +0000
title: GitHub Stargazing - June 30, 2017
---

It's time to do a roundup of the weekly trending repositories on GitHub, and
cover exactly what each is trying to accomplish and what language it is written
in.

magic-wormhole **Python**

magic-wormhole is primarily a library for transferring files from one computer
to another using "wormhole codes" over the internet. It also provides a small
command-line interface for demonstrating it's capabilities, which includes
generating said "wormhole codes" and sending files via a websocket-based server
that acts as a proxy so not to reveal the IP address of the sender. It was
created to help in situations in where two people must transfer a file securely
and quickly, in say, a phone call.

[warner/magic-wormhole ](https://github.com/warner/magic-wormhole)

TenserFlow-World **Python & Jupyter Notebook**

The goal of TenserFlow-World is to allow other to learn the basics of Machine
Learning with TenserFlow. It covers the basics from setting up a basic
environment to larger neural-network concepts.

[astorfi/TensorFlow-World](https://github.com/astorfi/TensorFlow-World)

pencil **JavaScript**

Pencil is a long-running graphical user interface prototyper by Evolus, a
Vietnam-based company who also develops an application for small clinics to
manage their patients information. It has recently been rebuilt completely,
moving from Mozilla XULRunner to Electron, the much loved Chromium-based webapp
wrapper, under the name Pencil V3.

[evolus/pencil](https://github.com/evolus/pencil)

react-express **JavaScript**

react-express is a collection of guides for getting started with React,
including create-react-app, webpack, babel, ES2015/2016 and more. It is a very
opinionated walkthrough aimed at beginners.

[dabbott/react-express](https://github.com/dabbott/react-express)

VirtualAPK **Java**

This is a really neat idea - It's a framework for adding plugins into your
(native) Android application, thus allowing yourself or other developers to add
on to your app. It does so seamlessly, not requiring any input from the user,
and could be extremely useful for something like the Hue app (just throwing that
idea out there). As a side note, it requires Android API version 14+, or Ice
Cream Sandwich and above.

[didi/VirtualAPK](https://github.com/didi/VirtualAPK)